[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: JavaScript
is an object-oriented language and
almost everything in
the language is objects, but
it's a different sense of object
than in another languages.
An object is a dynamic
collection of properties,
which means that new properties can
be added to an object at anytime.
Every property has a key string that
is unique within that object and
that key string is used
retrieve the values.
So the three basic operations on
object are get, set and delete.
Get uses the dot notation or
the bracket notation.
It turns out they're fairly
interchangeable, which is different than
most other languages generally brackets
and dots have different roles.
Here they both do the same thing.
So you can either have a constant name or
you can have an expression,,
which resolves into a string
which is that name.
They both do the same thing,
then set is the same thing,
except used with an assignment operator.
Then delete is a prefix operator,
which is rarely used.
But if you do use it, you just put it
in front of a name of a property and
it causes the property to
be removed from the object.
>> Douglas Crockford: JavaScript
has object literals,
this is one of the good
parts of the language.
It is also the inspiration for
the JSON Data Interchange Format.
Object literals are very expressive way
for creating a new object where you have
a name followed by column,
followed by a value.
You can have as many of those as
you want separated by commas and
that creates a new object
contained in that material.
In ES5, we added a meta API which
allows you to do the same things.
You can say, Object.defineProperties
passing an Object.create and
Object.prototype and foo.
That does exactly the same thing.
You might ask well, thank you so much for
allowing us to write it this way.
What's the value of that?
The value is that you've got more control
now that you can decide what the thing
inherits.
In particular,
you can have it inherit from null now,, so
that there's no inheritance
happening at all which for
some applications turns out
to be really beneficial.
Also we've got these three attributes,
which you now have control over.
They've always been in the language.
But until ES5, you couldn't get at them.
So you can now make
a property be read only.
You can now make it be not enumerable,
so that it will not show up in a for
in iteration.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
most object languages have classes.
JavaScript doesn't have classes,
it has prototypes.
It turns out prototypes are the more
powerful idea and the proof of that
is that you can simulate a class
system easily in a prototype system.
It's really hard to go the other way.
So it's much easier to write in
JavaScript in a Java style than in is
to write Java in a JavaScript style,
cuz Java just isn't as powerful.
JavaScript is more powerful, but I
recommend not writing JavaScript in a Java
style,,because you are losing most
of the benefit of the language.
You're still writing in
the style of the language,
which isn't as good as this language.
>> Douglas Crockford: So in this language,
you work with prototypes and
it turns out working with prototypes is
much easier than working with classes.
So you make a new object that you like and
you can create new instances of that
language that inherit from that
object using Object.create and
then you can customize the new objects,
adding new properties or
modifying properties as you need to and
that's it.
That's all you have to do
to manage your objects.
Whereas in a classical system,
you first have to classify everything.
You have to make a taxonomy.
You have to figure out what the
relationship is gonna be between all of
your classes.
And usually at the time you're doing that,
you don't not yet
have perfect domain knowledge as
to how it's going to work out.
So you make guesses.
And invariably,
you get stuff wrong which then means
you have to work with an inefficient
object system or you have to refactor and
refactoring is difficult and error prone.
All of that is completely avoided
in the prototypal system.
You just make objects.
So having that level of indirection
removed just makes everything easier.
So this is sometimes called
delegation where an object can
say anything that I don't know how to do,
ask that object to do it for me.
So objects inherit directly
from other objects.
So there's no classes
getting in the middle.
It's also sometimes called
differential inheritance where
each new object only has to contain
the material necessarily to
distinguish it from the thing
that inherited from.
JavaScript has a new prefix
operator which in my own practice,
I do not use at all anymore.
But if you wanted to write
it as a function just in
order to understand what it does,
this is what it does.
It creates a new object that inherits
from the function's prototype and
returns the result of calling
the function on that new object.
>> Douglas Crockford: So not surprisingly,
there a lot of things that
JavaScript didn't get right.
One of them was inheritance
sometimes works against you.
So here, I have an application where I'm
gonna count the number of words in a text.
I'm gonna use a regular expression and
break some text into a bunch of words, and
I wanna count the number of
occurrences of each of those words.
So I've got my little
bumper count function and
then a parse at each word, and.
>> Douglas Crockford: Wait a minute.
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay, so the naive
way to have written as would be to simply
bump word_count for every word that I get.
But that would fail if
the word was constructor,
because it turns out every object
inherits the constructor property.
And so that's a function.
And if you try to add one to a function,
then you get weirdness.
You don't get one.
So it would fail.
So you would have to instead look at.
>> Douglas Crockford: What the value
was an d look at its type.
Make sure it's a number.
And if it is a number,
then I can increment it.
If it's not, then I have to assign it.
So there's some defensive programming that
you have to do which should have been
unnecessary, but is necessary, because of
unexpected consequences of inheritance.
>> Douglas Crockford: That
description expired and
that we can now inherit from null
that solves a problem for this case.
Functions inherited from
a prototype are included in the for
in enumeration,
which is usually surprising.
Usually when they doing for in, it's
because you've got a collection of similar
values and you're not expecting any
methods to be included in the numeration.
And because you don't have
control in your code of
everybody who might ever add
anything to any prototype,
it is unfortunately necessary
to filter the results in for
in to make sure that you're not
getting stuff that you don't expect.
You can be testing for the type of things
as we did in the earlier one or looking to
see if it's part of hasOwnProperty, which
means it's not an inherited property.
You really have to do this.
Otherwise, there is a possibility
that your code's going to explode in
the future.
>> Douglas Crockford: One problem with
hasOwnProperty is that it's a method and
not an operator.
So if it turns out that hasOwnProperty
is also the name of a data value,
then it's not gonna be
available as a method.
And so you gonna get failure then.
So the way to get around that is to find
a place to where it's guaranteed to be,
which is
Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty and
then call method passing in
the other stuff which is horrible.
But in the worst case, that's the most
reliable way of doing that filtration.
>> Douglas Crockford: Keys
must be strings,
which I think is one of
the errors in the language.
It would have been much better if
keys could have been any value
in particular objects, so
you could have associations over objects.
Unfortunately, Brendan didn't do that.
So when you pass it a key,
it will convert it to a string
automatically coursing it which works, but
its lacks some of the power that
it could have had otherwise.
So there are lot of other types in the
language, which all inherits from object.
Everything is an object.
So numbers, Booleans, strings, arrays,
dates, regular expressions and
functions are all objects
in this language.